ApplicationTemplate Proposal (#359)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/architecture/app-management.md

# Automatic Application Management

Managing [Applications](./../terminology.md#Application) can be passed on some external system, to remove from Applications the burden of integration with Compass.
Because of that [IntegrationSystems](./components.md#Integration-System) were introduced.

To simplify creation of Applications, Director API is extended with Application Template. 
An ApplicationTemplate is reusable input for creating Applications that can be customized with placeholders provided 
during Application creation.

## Manage Applications by Integration System
Managing Integrations System is described in [a separate document](./integration-systems.md).

> Integration System can be uniquely identified by it's name. To create an Application that is managed by a Integration System,

Reviewer: As this sounds like constraint I would rephrase this.
```suggestion
Integration System is uniquely identified by its name. To create an Application that is managed by an Integration System,
```

specify `integrationSystemName` in the ApplicationCreateInput. 

```graphql
input ApplicationCreateInput {
    name: String!
    description: String
    labels: Labels
    webhooks: [WebhookInput!]
    healthCheckURL: String
    apis: [APIDefinitionInput!]
    eventAPIs: [EventAPIDefinitionInput!]
    documents: [DocumentInput!]
    integrationSystemName: String #optional
    labels: [LabelInput!]
}
```

> IntegrationSystemID is an optional. It means that you can still create Application that is not managed by IntegrationSystem.

Reviewer 2: Where is `IntegrationSystemID`. 
I see only `integrationSystemName`.

In the previous example, there was an assumption that every Application managed by given Integration System represents the same type
of the Application.  
In case IntegrationSystem supports many types of Applications, information about Application type should be stored in the Application labels.
Let assume that IntegrationSystem supports two types of Applications: `ecommerce` and `marketing` and such information 
is stored in label `simpleIntegrationSystem/applicationType`.
To create an Application of type `ecommerce`, use following mutation:
```graphql
mutation {
    createApplication(in:{name:"ecommerceApp", integrationSystemName:"simpleIntegrationSystem", labels:[{key:"simpleIntegrationSystem/applicationType",value:"ecommerce"}]}) {
        id
        name
        integrationSystemName
        labels
    }
}
```
Drawback of this approach is that label name (`simpleIntegrationSystem/applicationType`) and supported values(`ecommerce`,`marketing`) are arbitrary 
defined by a IntegrationSystem and has to be documented. 
Luckily, IntegrationSystem can simplify this process by defining ApplicationTemplates to explicitly specify supported types.

> ## Managing ApplicationTemplates

Reviewer: I'm missing here a bit of background regarding the placeholders mechanism. Do we support only simple key-value pairs, or some function calls? Do we support some optional placeholders? Do we validate during the creation that all placeholders are filled with appropriate values?

ApplicationTemplate defines ApplicationInput used to create Application. ApplicationInput can contains variable part - placeholders.
In the first iteration, ApplicationTemplate will be registered globally and will be visible for all tenants (notice `accessLevel` field).

```graphql
input ApplicationTemplateInput {
    name: String!
    description: String

    applicationInput: ApplicationCreateInput!
    placeholders:       [PlaceholderDefinitionInput!]
    
    accessLevel: ApplicationTemplateAccessLevel!

}

enum ApplicationTemplateAccessLevel {
    GLOBAL
}

input PlaceholderDefinitionInput {
    name            String!
    description     String
}

input TemplateValueInput {

>     Placeholder     String!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    placeholder     String!
```

>     Value           String!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    value           String!
```

with two labels:
- `integrationSystemName` with value `simpleIntegrationSystem`
- `simpleIntegrationSystem/applicationType` with value `ecommerce`

## Use placeholders in ApplicationTemplate
In the previous example, ApplicationTemplate was created with hardcoded Application name `ecommerce-app`. 
Because Application name has to be unique in given tenant, only one Application from given template can be created.
Fortunately, ApplicationTemplate can define placeholders, that values has to provided when adding an Application.

### Example
In this example we modify previously created ApplicationTemplate and make name configurable. 
1. Update ApplicationTemplate 

```graphql
mutation {
    updateApplicationTemplate(id:"some-id", in:{
        name:"ecommerce-template", 
        applicationInput:{
            name: "{{APPLICATION_NAME}}",
            integrationSystemName: "simpleIntegrationSystem",
            labels:[{key:"simpleIntegrationSystem/applicationType",value:"ecommerce"}]
    
        },
        placeholders: [
        {
            Name:"APPLICATION_NAME",
            Description:"Name of the application"
        }],
        }) {
           name
    }
 }
```

> As you can see, `APPLICATION_NAME` placeholder is defined. In ApplicationInput, we refer to the placeholder in the following form: `{{APPLICATION_NAME}}`.

Reviewer: New line missing

> # Automatic Application Management

Reviewer 3: hmm, maybe it would be better to change file name - `app-management.md` is a bit too generic. What about `auto-app-management.md` or something like that?

Managing [Applications](./../terminology.md#Application) can be passed on some external system, to remove from Applications the burden of integration with Compass.

> Because of that [IntegrationSystems](./components.md#Integration-System) were introduced.

Reviewer 3: Integration System

    eventAPIs: [EventAPIDefinitionInput!]
    documents: [DocumentInput!]
    integrationSystemID: ID
    labels: [LabelInput!]
}
```
IntegrationSystemID is an optional property. It means that you can still create Application that is not managed by IntegrationSystem.

### Example
In this example, Integration System is registered and then it configures newly added Application. 
1. Register Integration System
```graphql
mutation {
    createIntegrationSystem(in: {name: "simpleIntegrationSystem"} ) {
      id
      name
    }
}

```
2. Create Application with specified `integrationSystemID`
```graphql
mutation {
    createApplication(in:{name:"simpleApplication", integrationSystemID:"aaaaaaaa-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-aaaaaaaaaaaa"}) {
        id
        name
        integrationSystemID
        labels
    }
}
```
Compass adds protected label with name `integrationSystemID` for just created Application, so output of the previous mutation is the following:
```json
{
  "data": {
    "createApplication": {
      "id": "d046590f-934f-411f-91e2-d446b404a2a2",
      "name": "simpleApplication",
      "integrationSystemID": "aaaaaaaa-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-aaaaaaaaaaaa",
      "labels": {

>         "scenarios":["DEFULT"],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "scenarios":["DEFAULT"],
```
